Noche Buena cookies

Makes about 20 cookies

1/3 cup blanched almonds
1 1/2 cups (7 1/2 ounces) all-purpose flour
1/4 cup (3/4 ounces) Dutch-processed cocoa
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
12 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup (4 2/3 ounces) granulated sugar
4 ounces bittersweet chocolate, melted and cooled
2 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons coffee liqueur
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup dulce de leche

1. Adjust oven racks to upper-middle and lower-middle positions and heat 
oven to 350 degrees. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Process 
almonds in food processor until finely ground, about 30 seconds. 
Combine flour, cocoa, salt, and cayenne in bowl.

2. Using stand mixer fitted with paddle, beat butter and sugar on
medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add melted
chocolate, egg yolks, liqueur, and vanilla and beat until incorporated.
Reduce speed to low, add flour mixture in 3 additions and mix until just
combined, scraping down bowl as needed.

3. Working with 2 teaspoons dough at a time, roll dough into balls and
place 1 inch apart on prepared sheets. Sprinkle ground almonds on top,
pressing lightly to adhere. Bake until edges appear dry, 8 to 10 minutes,
switching and rotating sheets halfway through baking. Let cookies cool on
sheets for 5 minutes and then transfer to wire rack to cool completely,
about 40 minutes.

4. Spread 1/2 teaspoon dulce de leche over bottom of half of cookies and
then top with remaining cookies to form sandwiches. Serve. (Cookies can
be stored at room temperature for up to 3 days).

Notes: I use Kahlua for the coffee liqueur, though it suggests that or
Tia Maria. I had sliced, blanched almonds already and they worked fine. I
don't have a paddle attachment for my mixer, but it's worked just fine
with regular beaters every time I've made these. I've found dulce de
leche at Whole Foods (really, really good stuff) and at Market Basket. At
the latter they had two, one from Goya and one from Nestle. The Nestle
one was too thin, almost like maple syrup. My entry in the contest had
the Goya stuff, which I thought was pretty good but not quite up there
with stuff from Whole Paycheck. The recipe says to use 1/2 teaspoon but
I've found you want closer to a tablespoon to get a good balance between
spicy and sweet. My rule of thumb is that if it looks like a little too
much, it's good.

From Mike Johnson via the Dec/Jan 2012 issue of Cook's Country, page 11, 
courtesy of Paula Bonchak, Bonham, TX. 