Tagliatelle* Bolognese Classico Tipico Troppo Normale
================

(* pronounced tal-YI-ah-TELL-eh, no g's -- in fact, not even much of an l; it
comes from the word tagliare, meaning to cut. Presumably, the pasta is made
from a large pasta sheet by cutting out bands.)

The key to any good Bolognese ragú is cooking it for a long time.
I am convinced that good Italian restaurants have closely-guarded secrets
of, not recipes, but how long they actually cook the ingredients and
how they control for texture and consistency given how long they have
cooked the thing. The longer you cook this, the more intense the meat
flavor, _despite_ how much tomato-based things you throw into this sauce
and how much of various sorts of spices you throw into the pot.

This recipe is adapted from the one in 
https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/280810/bolognese-tagliatelle/. The
one there is good. We try to improve upon it by adding veal, which is
soft, retains good moisture, and is flavorful. We have also added a bit
more nutmeg, wine. Parmesan/Parmigiano Reggiano will add more body and
earthiness to the sauce than cream alone, not to mention, flavor.

Feel free to double, but you are going to feel it the next morning if
you attempt to mix and mash 6 pounds (3kg) of meat.

The recipe takes around 4hrs, but makes a large batch of pasta. One
soup ladle is enough to flavor up a single portion of pasta, and this
makes around 20 ladles. 

Ingredients
==========

- 4 oz of pancetta, finely diced
- 3 carrots, finely diced
- 3 stalks of celery, finely diced; in fact, just finely dice all the things
- 2 medium onions 
- 4 cloves of garlic
- ~1/2 cup of olive oil (used at various points)

- 1lb of ground beef
- 1lb of ground veal
- 1lb of ground pork

- 1/2 cup of dry white
- 1/2 cup of red
-- or --
- 1 cup of red

- 40oz of Victoria's Marinara
- 28oz of diced tomatos with juice
- 1/2 tsp of coriander
- 1 tsp of black peppers
- 1.5 tsp of Italian herbs
- 1 tsp of garlic powder
- 1.5 tsp of nutmeg (at various points)
- 2 bay leaves
- 3 rosemary sprigs
- 3 thyme sprigs
- 1 basil sprig
- 1/4 tsp of crushed red peppers

- 1 cup of beef stock
- 1/4 cup heavy cream
- 4oz of Parmigiano Reggiano (or just parmesan cheese) 

Steps:

0. Dice

   - 2 onions, 
   - 3 stalks of celery, 
   - 3 carrots, 
   - 4 cloves of garlic 

   if you haven't done so already.

   Prep the meat by mixing the three different kinds of meat together, and 
   mix in 1 tsp of salt,
   1/2 tsp of nutmeg, 1/2 tsp of coriander, 1 tsp of black pepper, 
   1 tbsp of red wine, 1 tsp of Italian herbs, and 1 tsp of garlic powder. 
   There's no need to add any other oil because the
   fat from the meat will be enough to absorb the aromas of the herbs.

   The meat/spice mixture should season for ~2 hours covered in the refrigerator. 
   I am not 100% sure whether or not any time longer than 2hrs would 
   make any difference.

1. Heat up a few tbsp of olive oil, add pancetta when the oil
   is hot. Cook for 7 - 8 mins till the whole thing is crispy. Add the garlic
   and 1/2 tsp of Italian herbs, mix and start sniffing vigorously till you're 
   happy with the smell. Do not burn the garlic.

   At this point, add the onions, celery and carrots (in that order). The onions
   can be cooked to non-existence and so can the celery, but the carrots should
   probably stand out towards the end. Cook till the onions are translucent. Remember
   to sniff to avoid onions giving off a tart smell (this means it's overcooked).

   Set aside.

2. Heat 2 tbsps of olive oil, and start cooking the meat. The original recipe says 
   "break up the meat into small chunks". That is good advice. With 3lbs of meat,
   you would want to break up the cooking into at least 4 batches. Each batch, cook
   for 3 - 5min, while breaking the bunch into small pellets.

   With each batch, you want the meat broken up into pellets the size of a
   popcorn (or smaller). If you feel that your meat is not broken down
   evenly, don't worry. You'll get another chance to do so.

   Once you are done with one batch, mix it back in with the pancetta/vegetable
   mixture. Continue until all the meat is cooked.

3. Once all the batches are done, cook the final mixture for 5 minutes, and
   use the blade part of your spatula to break up the meat by repeatly jabbing
   into the mixture. The result should be that the meat is actually "fluffy"
   because of how broken up it is.

   Add the 1/2 cup white wine or 1/2 cup of red, and cook for another 10 minutes till
   the liquid from the wine have disappeared. During this time, add 1tsp of
   nutmeg, salt to taste, and 1/4 tsp of pepper flakes. Avoid adding too much
   salt, as the mixture should already taste good. Even if it doesn't taste
   salty, there are plenty of other ingredients that imparts saltiness later on.

4. Mix in 40oz of Victoria's marinara sauce. It should briefly start to smell
   like Bolognese sauce. That's because the aromas of the meat and the aromas
   of marinara is now starting to combine. However, it's just the aromas. If
   you quit now, it will taste like marinara-flavored meat mixture, pretty
   much like how you would experience hamburger with ketchup.

   This is fine if you are not willing to wait. However, if you do follow the
   rest of the steps, then the folks in Bologna will respect you more. And
   that's where half of the flavor of the sauce comes from: Bolognese respect.

   Add another 28oz of diced tomatoes. The smell will immediately turn 
   tomato-ey. We want to do this to give the sauce more freshness so that the
   parmegiano and cream will be balanced. If you prefer to call it quits here,
   then don't bother with the diced tomatoes.

5. Let this mixture cook in the background. Add 1 cup of beef stock together
   with 1/2 cup of red wine and the juice from 1/2 lemon into a bowl. Slowly 
   ladle the mixture into your pot of meat mixture over the course of 2 hrs 
   of simmer. 

   During the 2 hrs, convection will bring the tomato juice in contact with the 
   meat, allowing the latter to soak in the flavors in exchange for the meat 
   flavor to enter the liquid. 

   You can taste the liquid that floats to the top to gauge which direction
   you want to go. More tart (add zest), more sweet (add
   tomato and sugar), more meat (add beef stock), fresher (add coriander),
   richer (add cheese), more smokey (add paprika) and so on and so forth.
   
   THAT SAID, don't actually add salt or increase the heaviness/creaminess 
   of the mixture till you are done with the parmigiano reggiano in step 6.

6. Around the 1-hr mark, start making the pasta if you are a nut. If you
   are just a regular (posh) person, you would get it from your local 
   pasta shop and you would start around 1hr 30min in. Or if you are 
   extra regular, you would just buy box pasta, though tagliatelle  
   is pretty hard to find in a box.

   Around 1hr 40min, shred the 4oz of Parmigiano Reggiano, and add it
   into the pot. Avoid salting the sauce till now because cheese is salty
   and you run the risk of oversalting. Stir in 1/4 cup of heavy cream 
   once you have thoroughly dissolved the cheese. 

   (Now you can call the mixture "ragú".)

   Taste it continuously by scooping out bits from the middle or bottom of
   the batch (saltiest is at the bottom), wait till it's cooled down to room 
   temperature, and sample. Modify as you'd like.  Follow your palette. 
   Some suggestions are in step 5 (sorry for narrating out of order).

7. Strain out pasta, allow some of the water on the pasta to evaporate,
   and add olive oil and pasta to a pan. Fry for 2min and add the ragú into
   the pasta and mix thoroughly for a min before plating in a swirl.

   Finally, garnish with basil, parsley, parmesan, lemon zest. Whatever
   catches your fancy.
