Cake

1 stick (1/2 cup) plus 1 Tablespoon butter, softened
1/2 cup plus 1 Tablespoon cocoa powder
1 cup light brown sugar
1/4 cup honey
4 large eggs
1 1/2 cups puréed beets (see chef's note)
1 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
Confectioners’ sugar for dusting

Chocolate Glaze (Optional)

1/4 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips
2 Tablespoons honey
1 Tablespoon butter
1/4 cup low-fat milk


Directions

1. Make sure the oven rack is positioned in the center of the oven and
preheat the oven to 375 degrees F.

2. In a small microwavable bowl, melt 1 Tablespoon of butter in the
microwave on low power. When butter is melted, stir 1 Tablespoon cocoa
powder into the butter. Use a pastry brush to apply a thin coat of the
butter-cocoa powder mixture to the inside of a Bundt® pan (10-cup
maximum capacity) and then set aside.

3. In a large mixing bowl, beat together the remaining 1 stick of
softened butter, the sugar and the honey. Add the eggs one at a time,
mixing well after each addition. Add the puréed beets and mix well.

4. Place 1/2 cup of the chocolate chips in a small microwave-safe bowl
and microwave on high power for about 1 minute. Stir the chocolate
chips and microwave for another 30 seconds or until chips are
completely melted. Allow the melted chocolate to cool slightly before
adding to the mixture in the large mixing bowl (from Step 3). Add the
vanilla extract. Mix well.

5. In a small bowl, combine the flour, the remaining 1/2 cup cocoa
powder, baking soda and salt. Stir to combine. Add the dry ingredients
gradually to the chocolate mixture from Step 4 and mix well. The
batter should be smooth and thick. Stir in the remaining 1/2 cup of
unmelted chocolate chips.

6. Pour the batter into the prepared Bundt® pan and place the pan in
the preheated oven on the middle rack. Bake for 45 minutes or until a
toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Cool the cake in
the pan on a cooling rack for 10 minutes. To remove the cake from the
pan, place another cooling rack on top of the cake pan and, using oven
mitts, flip the cake pan upside down and gently shake or tap it until
the cake comes out onto the second rack. If the cake seems stuck, turn
it back over and carefully run a thin rubber or silicone spatula
between the edge of the cake and the pan. Then turn it over again onto
the second cooling rack.

7. Dust the cake with confectioners’ sugar when cool.


Variations

Instead of sprinkling the cake with confectioners’ sugar, make a
chocolate glaze. To make the glaze, combine the chocolate chips, honey
and butter in a microwave-safe bowl and microwave in 30-second
increments at full power, stirring in between, until the chocolate is
melted. Let cool slightly and then gradually stir in the milk. Place
the cooled cake on a serving platter and spoon the glaze over the
cake. Place the cake in the refrigerator for 15 minutes or until the
glaze hardens slightly.


chef's notes

Don't skip the instructions for coating the pan with the butter-cocoa
mixture; it will keep the cake from sticking to the pan.

To make the 1 1/2 cups of puréed beets, use 5 fresh beets (small to
medium in size) or 2 cans (14 oz. each), drained. If starting with
fresh beets, trim greens, roots and stems from the beets and rinse the
beets. Place beets in a pot of boiling water, cover and simmer for 30
minutes to an hour, depending on size, until the beets are tender when
pierced with a knife. Let the beets cool (or run them under cold
water) until they're still warm but comfortable enough to handle. Then
use a paper towel to rub away the skin. Cut the cooked beets or canned
beets (drained) into small chunks and purée them in a blender or a
food processor until smooth.

Use any leftover beet purée to make a sauce for pork or chicken by
simmering it with sautéed onions, vinegar and fresh herbs.

If you don't have a Bundt® pan, you can make this in a regular tube
pan or as a sheet cake in a 13-by-9-inch baking pan. Prepare the pan
and the recipe as directed and bake at 375 degrees F for 40 to 50
minutes.


Source

http://www.rightathome.com/Food/Recipes/Pages/UnbeetableChocolateCake.aspx?sid=email&cid=rah201009&rid=11879838&om_rid=ANtlWZ&om_mid=_BMfr8QB8UfzQWu